Sachin Ramesh Tendulkar is India’s and probably world’s most admired and celebrated cricketer. He has an enable fan following as large as that of rock stars or great movie stars. 
He truly is wonder boy of India.
Born on April 24, 1973, Sachin Tendulkar burst on the international cricket scene with his debut in a series in Pakistan, when he was merely a boy of 16 years. Before being selected for the national scene he had displayed his talent in domestic cricket at state and junior levels. In the very debut series, he made people take note of him.
Then, followed his long cricketing career, in which he crossed one milestone after another and piled up runs, half centuries and centuries to become the highest centurion and the 
most run getter. He received the nickname of 'Master Blaster'. In his private life he remained cool, calm and dignified. No vulgar show of success and flamboyance he indulged in. His serene nature and temperament on the pitch amazed other stalwarts of past, contemporaries and sports analysts.
For the sports lovers, he became semi-god, for youth an icon and for sponsors a virtual money spinner. The success never went to his head. He continued to be soft spoken, affable 
Sachin, a familiar face to all Indians. He is a team man and the interests of the team and the country remained uppermost in his mind. For a long time he was the scourge of the 
bowlers of the world.
In the later years of the cricketing life, Sachin several times was waylaid by injuries. But every time he came back in style after treatment and rehabilitation to the delight of 
his fans. He has won so many national and international awards that to enumerate them will take a lot of space. He captained the Indian team for some time but it affected his 
batting. So, he was allowed to continue on as a batsman. He also bowls with good effect when the situation demands. Sachin is a star in both versions of the game —Tests and ODIs, 
who serves the team as batsman and bowler. In the gloomy scene of sports in India, Sachin shines as a brilliant star to provide a huge consolation.
